Bubble Sort:
Its trivial (simpler, easier) and traditional way of sorting technique. Such kind of technique we call as BRUTE FORCE.

Compare consecutive elements of the array
Assuming we are sorting in increasing order, when the left element (element at lower index) is higher than the next element (right element) then we swap them.
By continuing this till end of un-sorted part of the array, we end up end pushing or bubbling the largest element in its final position.
Once the element is in its final position, we do not disturb it.
Thus it goes into the sorted part of the array.
Thus we must be able to imagine 2 arrays in the given array.

In Bubble sort, we do not check for anything like, if the array is some what or almost sorted. Nor we consider any element to be already in its final position.
We just start sorting (aaplying the logic).
Now, say if the given array is already fully sorted, yet, the Bubble sort algorithm has same number of comparisons when the array is not sorted.

For any sorting technique, the best case scenario is that the array is already sorted.
The worst case scenario is when the given array is already sorted, but we have to sort in reverse order.

In any sorting technique, we must reach/access every element from the unsorted array (given array). So the efficiency of this part of the sorting is O(n)
And we must also have a logic that puts every element in its right position in the array. Efficiency of this is O(n)

n-1  +  n-2  +  n-3  +  ..... 4 + 3 + 2 + 1
= n(n+1)/2
~ n2

Usually, in almost all sorting techniques, the outer loop accesses elements from the unsorted array.
The inner loop does some work such as comparison, shifting elements, finding position etc.

algorithm:
input: array
from 1st element till last in given array do:
    from 1st element till last element in unsorted part of given array do:
        compare consecutive elements:
        if left element is greater than right element then:
            swap the elements

Pseudocode:
Bubble_sort(ARRAY)
for i from 0 to n-2 do:
    for j from 0 to n-2-i do:
        if ARRAY[j] > ARRAY[j+1] then:
            swap: ARRAY[j] , ARRAY[j+1]

def bubble_sort(array)
    for i in range(len(array)-1):
        for j in range(len(array)-1-i):
            if array[j] > array[j+1]:
                array[j] , array[j+1] = array[j+1] , array[j]

WCE: O(n2)
BCE: O(n2)


TREE:
A tree is a non-cyclic DS (acyclic)
A tree is heirarchical DS (Drives, folders and files in computer)
In tree data is stored in NODES
The only entry point of the tree is called as ROOT
A Node can have any number child nodes.
A node that is reached after traversing/descending a node (node reachable from a node)
The Root is said to be at a LEVEL 1.
The route we follow to reach the bottom of the tree from the ROOT is said to be PATH
Number of nodes we traverse in a path is said to be HEIGHT of the path.
The bottom of the path is said to be reached when there is no way to traverse any further. That is the present node has no child nodes.
Such a node is said to be LEAF node.
Heighest among the Heights of all the paths in the tree is the HEIGHT of the tree. In other words, highest of all possible levels in a tree is height of the tree.
If in a tree, every node has at most 2 child nodes, then the tree is BINARY TREE.
In a BT of height N, the maximum number of nodes is (2PowerN)-1 which is always a odd number.
The child node to the left of a node is LEFT CHILD NODE and on similar lines, we have RIGHT CHILD NODE.
A BT with exactly 2powerN-1 nodes is said to be COMPLETE BT.
A BT with all the nodes having only left child nodes or only right child nodes is actually a linear DS and is the BT having least number of nodes for given height H and will have H nodes in it.
A BT in which every node has exactly 0 or 2 child nodes only is said to be STRICTLY BT.
The height of a node in tree is the height from it to the far leaf node.
The tree that is obtained by traversing the left child node of the root is said to be LEFT SUB-TREE and thus we also have RIGHT SUB-TREE.
If in a BT, every node data is higher than its left child node data and is lesser than the right child data then such a BT is said to be BINARY SEARCH TREE.
NOTE: The nodes we can traverse from the current node itself constitutes into a BT and thus the current node itself can be considered as Root of such a tree.
If we traverse the BT such that we access the root 1st and the left child and then the right (R'LR) then it is said to be PRE-Order traversal
Aand the other 2 (only) traversals are LR'R and LRR'
Note that Left always comes before Right.
In a BST when we traverse in In-order, the data we get will be in ascending order.
If the BST is balanced which we call BBST then searching a node in it has efficiency of O(LogN) because with every traversal, we do aways with half of the BST (either the LST or RST)
BCE of searching an element in BST O(1)
WCE of searching an element in BST is O(n)
WCE of searching an element in BBST is O(LogN) which is nothing but Height of the BBST.
We always add the new node into a BST as Leaf node.
